Israel's security cabinet
now authorizing Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu,
as well as Defense Minister Yoav
go on to decide on the country's
response to yesterday's deadly
rocket attack in the Golan Heights.
Already,
the Israeli military say
they have struck
multiple Hezbollah
targets inside Lebanon overnight
and now the region
and the world waits to see
whether this will escalate further.
With us now, Jeremy Diamond,
who's on the scene
in the Golan Heights,
and Ben Wedeman in the Lebanese
capital of Beirut.
Dami, let's start first with you.
We know the international community
is urging restraint on both sides.
What are Israeli
leaders saying right now?
Well, Jessica, there's no question that
there is a flurry of diplomatic activity
right now
trying to de-escalate these tensions,
trying to ensure
that the Israeli response to
what they say was a Hezbollah strike
right here behind me
on this soccer
field will be a limited response.
Israeli officials have not indicated yet
how limited that response will be,
but they have made clear
that there will be a response,
that there will be a price
to pay for this attack that killed 12
children in this community
of Majdal Shams.
The Israeli security
cabinet met this evening once
Prime Minister
Netanyahu returned to Israel
from the United States
authorizing him
and the defense minister, Yoav Gallant,
to try to move forward with a strike
at a time
and with a scope of their choosing.
So remains to be seen
how quickly
that will actually come together.
But right now this is a community
that not only is anticipating
the possibility of that Israeli response
waiting to see what will unfold
from the events that have happened here,
but it is also very much
still a community in mourning.
It is just after midnight
here in Majdal Shams.
And you can see behind me
that there are, you know,
several dozen teenagers
who have come here to just sit together,
to speak to to mourn
quietly and to take in
all that has happened
over the course of these last two days.
Flowers
have now been set up
where that crater still stands.
Lights have also been put up.
This is a very small, tight knit
Syrian Druze community
and they are definitely all feeling
the tremendous impact
of what has happened,
an attack
that has shaken
this community to its core
and in many ways shattered its very soul.
Jessica Hmm.
Jeremy Diamond
All right, Thanks
so much for that reporting.
And Ben, this
this says the Lebanese government
in a tenuous spot.
How are they responding?
Yes, the Lebanese
government
is this really underscores, Jessica,
just how weak the Lebanese government
is in trying to determine
the course of events.
Hezbollah is has in terms
of military strength,
has far more firepower than the Lebanese
army itself.
Now, we spoke today
to the caretaker
Lebanese foreign minister,
Abdullah Abo Habib,
who made it clear that
the worry of the Lebanese government
is that if Israel attacks
Lebanon and Hezbollah in particular,
that it could easily spiral
into a regional war.
You know,
not because of conviction,
but because of any attack on our country.
We support Hezbollah as the art,
but it's not going to be Hezbollah
alone, as I mentioned.
Iran's foreign minister said yesterday
it will be Hezbollah alone.
And you have the houses of
the Iraqi militias. You have
militias in Syria are not serious,
but certainly have got the militias.
And, of course,
the concern here
is that if that happens,
life,
which at the moment
is actually going on very much normally
to my right, there is a disco party.
It's Sunday evening,
but people are enjoying
the cool evening temperatures.
A little while ago,
we heard some very loud bangs rushed out,
wondering
if this was the much anticipated
Israeli attack.
No, it was actually fireworks
just above our head.
Nonetheless,
several airlines have either delayed
or canceled flights into Beirut in fear
of an imminent Israeli attack.
And the US embassy today
reissued a statement strongly urging U.S.
nationals to reconsider travel
to Lebanon.
Now, I was at the airport today.
I arrived in Beirut
and what I saw was there was a very long
line of people
waiting to enter the country.
Many of those from the Lebanese diaspora,
many of them with American passports
Jessica. All right.
Ben Wedeman for us
live in Beirut tonight.
Thank you so much for that reporting.
I first want to ask
just your reaction
to this attack on the Golan Heights
and what we've seen from
Israel in response so far.
I mean, yet another heinous
attack by an Iranian proxy.
Right.
I mean, 12
children
and teenagers killed on a soccer field,
just barbaric.
And yet another
the deadliest attack
on Israel since October 7th.
So it's yet again,
I mean, we've seen it's 5000 attacks
now from Hezbollah
into Israel since October 8th.
So this is just an ongoing
and these are just ongoing attacks,
this one particularly heinous.
And so so, Jessica,
I think what this shows us is now of Iran
and its continued attack on our allies,
but also on democracy
in the United States.
As the foreign minister
and one of the foreign ministers
recently said from Hezbollah
said, Israel is merely a tool,
the main war.
The real war is with America.
And I think that's important context
that you bring up, that Hezbollah
has been firing rockets
into Israel
at the northern border for months
now, that this has been ongoing,
it has been a deep concern,
especially from U.S.
officials, that this particular region
could escalate, that
that conflict could escalate.
What do you think is the appropriate U.S.
response to the current escalation?
I think the United States, as it did
today, has to continue to work
very closely
with with Israel and in deciding
what's the appropriate response here.
So we'll leave it to them
to work that through.
But the bottom line is,
when there is an attack on a nation,
an attack on Israel yet again,
with, of course,
the loss of 12,
then 40, more than 40 wounded,
you realize that it does
merit a response.
So we'll leave it to them
to work together on that response.
But the bigger point here
is whether you're
talking about the Houthis
and their attack on Israel,
but also on the United States, on our
on our service members, other Iranian
backed proxies in Iraq and Syria,
continuing to attack the United States
and our service members around the world.
What you see here is terror,
you know, at its worst.
And that's really what Hamas
and Hezbollah and all and Palestine,
Islamic Jihad and others and the Houthis.
That's what this is about.
It's an attack
not just on Israel, but an attack
on democracy.
Last night, I spoke with the
former Israeli prime
minister, Naftali Bennett.
He told us the following.
I'll play this clip.
With respect
to Lebanon's
responsibility for Hezbollah,
here's what he said.
We are not going to tweezer our way
through and look for Hezbollah amid
Lebanon.
Hezbollah is part of the government.
Hezbollah is part of Lebanon.
And what Lebanon needs to do
tonight is move
all of Hezbollah away from the border,
all the way up to the river of Litani
and stop everything they're doing.
That is the only way they can prevent
an all out war.
And so, Congressman,
what is your response to that?
Again,
kind of helping people understand that
Hezbollah operates within Lebanon?
There's also a Lebanese government.
Right.
And the Hezbollah in southern Lebanon,
right on the border of Israel.
After the attack of October 7th,
Israelis pulled back from the border
after the attack
started from Hezbollah
in southern Lebanon.
More than 80,000 have been displaced.
They haven't been able to go home
since October 7th. Right.
They've left their homes
in the northern part of Israel,
right on the border of Lebanon
because of the attacks
coming in from Hezbollah.
And people want to go home. Right.
And many of them want to go home.
School is starting in a few weeks
for the students there in Israel.
They haven't.
They've been displaced from.
And so that's a big issue
in Israel right now.
How do we get them home?
And Hezbollah
has not pulled back
from from that border.
And we see just the attacks
going, as I mentioned,
have been 5000 of them
yesterday, being one of the
being the deadliest.
But the bottom line is
this has been going on
nearly every day, rockets
being fired from Lebanon, from Hezbollah
into Israel.